♪ [music] ♪
All right our first component, which is
going to be this StorePicker component.
Where you type in the name of the
store or it auto fills with a
hilarious one. And then we have
a button that when you click it,
it's going to push you to that actual
store. So if you look
at our React DevTools here,
you'll see that there is a
StorePicker component. We're going
to build that first ,and then we're
going to hook up the visit store, which
is going to push the actual URL for it.
So where do we write that code? Well let's
first write it in index.js and then we'll
move it over to the separate components
folder here. Now before we write any
React, what do we need? We need to load
in React just like before you write
jQuery, you need to load in jQuery.
And you might be thinking, "Okay I'll
go into my index.html, and I'll give
myself a script source, and I will
say react.js, and then it's on the page,
and I'm good to go."
However modern JavaScript is done
a little bit differently,
and we're going to be using
what's called ES6 modules where we can
import it. So rather than using a script
tag to load in every single library that
you want, you go into the code that you're
writing, in this case index.js, and we're
going to import React, capital R,
from and then a string of `react`.
And what that does is it's going to load
everything that is in the React library
into this variable called React. Now where
is this coming from?
Well in the first video, if you open
up our package.json, you'll know
that I have already gone ahead and listed
all of the things that we need for this
tutorial to work. And one of them being
`react` and `react-dom` and `react-router`
and 'react-addons-css...` all of these
different things. So if I didn't do that,
what you would have had to do is go
to your terminal here, but quit this first
"npm install react --save", and that will
go and fetch the React library
as well as save that dependency
to your package.json.
So really
important, this entire tutorial I do not
need you to `npm install` anything. Why?
Because this tutorial has already come
with a list of things that you need,
as well as the versions that are going
to work the best. These are the latest
versions as of time of recording, and I
just want to make sure that everybody's
on the exact same version for the duration
of this course until things get updated
and then it's time to re-record them.
So you do not need to `npm install`
anything, you simply just need to type "npm
install" on our first video, which we did
already. And then you type "npm start",
to kickstart our Webpack and server
that will open itself on up.
Let's go over to our index.js here.
And we've imported React from `react`.
Now I'm going to open up this localhost
in the browser here. First of all, a
couple things, you're going to sometimes
see these warnings here, and that's
something called ESLint. ESLint is a
linter which sort of will smack your hand
when you do things that aren't in the
best interest of writing good React code,
and it's okay if you sometimes see these.
We're going to run into them,
and we'll show you how to fix them.
The Create React App comes
with a very minimal set of ESLint
rules, and then we'll show you how
you can break out, or eject out of it,
if you'd like to use your own
ESLint rules, if you're comfortable
with that. However, what I want to show
you is that if we go to our elements
panel, you'll see that the script tag
has been added. That gets added by the
dev server. And it gives us the static
bundle js. If I were to go to that URL
here, you'll see that...Look at this.
All this code here, this is React,
right? only because I imported React
from `react`. If I take it out and refresh
this URL you're going to see that React
is no longer in there. There's a whole
bunch of stuff. This is all Webpack dev-server
stuff. That's totally fine.
That stuff's not included when you
actually deploy it to your application,
but if I were to write "alert('hello')",
and refresh this, you will see if I
search for it. There we go, there is my
actual `alert` code. So any code that gets
written in this index.js is going
to be bundled into your bundle.js file,
and this is...again this is a
development version. So there is going
to be a whole bunch of other stuff
in here that's just for development,
and we're going to learn
how do we take that out for production
mode? So we want to go back to "import
React from `react`," and we want
to create our first component.
And the way that we do that is we
say "class", and we're going to be using
ES6 classes here. And we'll look at what
the difference is between the two.
But we'll say "class StorePicker", and we
use a capital on the front of all of our
components because they can be used more
than once. And we're going to say "extends",
and it's going to extend "React.Component",
and open up and close your curly brackets.
Now that is our very basic component.
In every single component that you build,
it means at least one method, and that
is the render() method. So when a component
gets rendered to the actual page, it will
ask StorePicker "what HTML should
I display?" So we type "render()", and if you
are new to ES6 classes, this is sort
of similar to doing something like this
like "function store()"-- sorry, "render()",
something like that. However, we just
write it like this here, and then
inside of this render() we are going
to return some JSX.
We'll learn about more of that in the
video. So we'll say "return",
I'm just going to have a paragraph
that says "Hello", and close
that up. Now that is our StorePicker
component. How do I get it to actually
render onto the page? If you open up your
HTML here, you're going to see that we
have an empty div right here. Div with the
id of "main," and this is where the React
app is going to go. This is called a
mounting point for us with a div with the
id of "main." So what we do here, is we
need to go and grab `react-dom`
because React is not just for HTML
in the DOM.
It can also be used to create
Android apps as well as iOS
apps, and there is a `canvas` render.
So where React renders out to is not just
HTML, but in our case we actually want it
to render to HTML. So we need to import
the render() method from a package called
"react-dom." Now sometimes you may see
people say import reactDOM
from 'react-dom,' and then what we're
going to do is down here we'll say
"ReactDom.render()", but in our case, we
don't need the entire `react-dom` package.
We just need that one render() method.
So rather than import the entire package,
we just import one of the methods
from it, and that's what these
curly brackets in ES6 will do.
So what we do is say "render()",
and the first thing that we
pass it is what component would we
like to render. In our case, it's going
to be StorePicker. So here we say
"", and this is JSX here
because we created this
component, and when you
want to render out a component,
you open up a tag, you type the name
of the component, and then you
close the actual component itself.
And then the second thing is what
DOM element should it render out to?
So we have a div with the id of "main." How
do we select that? Well we can just use
document.querySelector, and we'll pass it
with an id of "main." You could also use
document.getElementById there. So now,
if I save that, and go back to our
application...Oh, there we go. Look all
ready you see "Hello," now if we go to our
React Dev ools, you'll see that the
StorePicker component has been rendered to the
page, and that's pretty much it. Now it's
a best practice to put each of your
components in a separate file. So rather
than us build our entire application
in one file, and there's nothing wrong
with that. However, it's a little bit
easier to maintain it if we put each
of our components in their own files.
So what I like to do is go to `components`
here. I'm going to create a file.
And I'm going to name it StorePicker.js
and I'm naming it exactly as the component
is named. And I'm going to take this
component here and I'm going to go
to StorePicker.js and paste it there. Now
you might think that's all we need to do
in order for it to actually work.
But there's a couple of things that need
to happen here. First of all, we need
React, so we need to import React
from `react`, and you're going to have
to do that in the top of every
single component. Not like jQuery, where
you load on the page, and it's
available to everyone. With ES6
modules, if you need something
inside of of these JS modules here,
you need to make sure
that you import it inside of every
single file that you need it.
So we've imported React. We've needed it.
We create this class here, and then what
we would do is we type "export default
StorePicker;", and what that's going
to allow us to do is we've created this
tidy little component that we can go
back into our index.js and we will say
"import StorePicker from," now you might
think we just type "StorePicker" right?
However, if it's just a string, Webpack
thinks that you look in the node_modules
directory, and this is not a node module.
This is a module that we've created our
actual selves. So we need to do what's
called a relative path, so "./" for in the
index.html, we need to go inside of the
`components` folder, and we want to look
for StorePicker. You don't need the ".js"
on the end. It's assumed, so you can just
simply type "StorePicker." So if we refresh,
nothing should have happened because we
have just sort of refactored it, made the
component inside of here, and this
is nice. We're going to be able to go
into the StorePicker every time that we
need to edit it.  And we don't have
to scroll through a thousand
lines of code in order to work with it.